When we think of events that will soon happen, such as the Great Tribulation in Armageddon,
wouldn't you agree that we need to build our faith now?
In fact, if you turn with me to Ezekiel, chapter 38, and you may want to put a marker there,
verses 14 and 15 describe the time when God's people will experience and all-out assault
by those determined to destroy pure worship.
Verse 14 mentions that God, or as we know a coalition of nations, will come against God's people.
And though, verse 18 states that on that day, Jehovah's great rage will flare up against his enemies,
the question is, will you and I remain confident in Jehovah's promise to rescue his people?
We can build our faith by considering another aspect of creation, the awesome power of wind and water.
Please allow the following video to strengthen your faith.
Hail, though it is made of ice, it is very different from snow.
Hail usually forms in warm weather, when turbulent air produces thunderstorms with powerful updrafts.
Those updrafts can pull a piece of dust or ice high into the cloud where water freezes around it.
Each trip up into the cloud adds a layer of ice and weight.
Until it becomes a hail stone that is heavy enough to fall,
hail storms can be powerfully destructive.
One deadly storm dropped hail stones weighing more than one kilogram each.
Jehovah used hail to demonstrate his power and defend his people,
such as during the seventh plague against Egypt.
When Joshua fought the Amorites, Jehovah caused a great hail storm,
and more Amorites died from the hail stones done in battle.
Hail is also mentioned among the elements Jehovah will use in the future against those who attack his people.
Have you seen the storehouses of the hail, which I have reserved for the day of battle and war?
As the video showed, wind and water in the form of hail are powerful and can at times be very destructive.
For example, a report in a Wake magazine some years ago reported that at times humans are hurt,
even killed by hail stones weighing as much as one and a half pounds and as big as five inches in diameter.
That's larger than this ball.
And there are scientific reports of even larger hail stones.
But as we know, Jehovah can use wind and water to fight for his people,
while he's the source of these natural forces, and he can control them perfectly.
Please turn with me to Psalm 147, and let's notice that together.
Psalm 147 will look at verses 17 and 18 for the assurance that Jehovah is the source of these natural forces.
Psalm 147, 17, he hurls down his hail stones like morsels of bread, who can withstand his cold?
He sends out his word and they melt.
He makes his wind blow and the waters flow.
Did you notice to whom these natural forces belong?
Verse 17 speaks of his hail stones.
Verse 18 says, he makes his wind blow.
Yes, Jehovah is the source and he can control them.
He proved this in the past.
Do you remember the examples given in the video?
One was the account in Joshua chapter 10 when the Israelites were fighting the Amorites.
Verse 11 states that while the Amorites were fleeing from Israel,
Jehovah hurled great hail stones from the sky on them and they perished.
In fact, more died from the hail than from the sword of the Israelites.
If Jehovah can create such powerful elements and control them, that should build our faith.
It should convince us that he'll be able to use these powerful elements in the future
when he defends his people at Armageddon.
The video partially quoted a scripture that emphasizes that point.
Let's read it together.
Job chapter 38.
Job 38.
And notice with me verses 22 and 23.
Job 38, 22.
Have you entered the storehouses of the snow or have you seen the storehouses of the hail,
which I have reserved for the time of distress, for the day of battle and war?
Did you notice that Jehovah says he has storehouses of hail, reserved for the day of battle?
So on 135 verse 7 mentions storehouses of wind.
In these verses, Jehovah speaks of things he's reserved under his control for special purposes.
How can this knowledge of Jehovah's storehouses build our faith?
When we're attacked during the Great Tribulation by God's enemies,
no matter how powerful or threatening they may seem, they can't possibly survive Jehovah's anger.
For example, if we go back to Ezekiel chapter 38 and glance at verse 22,
we see things Jehovah will use against those enemies of pure worship.
Besides pestilence, fire and sulfur, notice what else Jehovah will use in the middle of the verse.
It says,
I will rain down a torrential downpour and hail stones.
Yes, Jehovah will use water.
He may use hail stones of undisclosed size to destroy those wicked humans.
Now, during that time, will we need to fear the natural elements?
Not at all.
Second Peter chapter 2 verse 9 assures us,
Jehovah knows how to rescue people of godly devotion out of trial.
Jehovah will perfectly control the natural elements so his people are not harmed.
This knowledge about the awesome power of wind and water should make us powerful by faith.
It should build our faith not only in Jehovah's ability to protect us in the future,
but also in his protection now.
For instance, we have no reason to fear bans or threats from worldly governments.
The one who controls the storehouses of the wind and hail is our helper.
According to Hebrews chapter 13 verse 6,
we do not need to be afraid.
That's true now, and it will be true in the future when Jehovah brings the natural elements at his disposal against our enemies.
Notice his assurance at the end of Ezekiel chapter 38.
Notice verse 23,
and I will certainly magnify myself and sanctify myself and make myself known before the eyes of many nations,
and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.
What a thrilling time that will be.
As these enemies are defeated, they will know that it is Jehovah God who is bringing destruction upon them.
May our anticipation of that happy outcome and our study of creation build our faith now,
as we confidently look forward to Jehovah's complete victory.
Where the Robert Lucioni, a helper to the publishing committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Use creation to build your faith.
See creatures.